Update GCP Service Extensions documentation (#28511)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/security/application_security/threats/setup/threat_detection/gcp-service-extensions.md

To try the preview of ASM Service Extensions for GCP, follow the setup instructions below.
{{< /callout >}}

You can enable application security with GCP Service Extensions within GCP Cloud Load Balancing. The Datadog Application Security Management (ASM) Service Extensions integration provides threat detection and blocking capabilities directly in your GCP environment.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have:

- The [Datadog Agent][1] installed and configured for your application's operating system or container, cloud, or virtual environment.
- [Configured the Agent with Remote Configuration][2] to enable blocking attackers using the Datadog UI.
- In your GCP project, either the project `owner` or `editor` role, or the relevant Compute Engine IAM roles: `compute.instanceAdmin.v1` (to create instances) and `compute.networkAdmin` (to set up load balancing).
- A GCP project with a Cloud Load Balancer configured for your services. Your Cloud Load Balancer must be one of the [Application Load Balancers that supports Traffic Callouts][3].

> - The Compute Engine API and Network Services API enabled:

Author: On:
```
- One of the following roles in your GCP project: 
	   - `owner`
	   - `editor`
	   - both of the following Compute Engine IAM roles: `compute.instanceAdmin.v1` (to create instances) and `compute.networkAdmin` (to set up load balancing)
```

It might be a bit misleading, because it should be either the `owner` or `editor` role OR the both IAM roles. I'm not really sure if we want to phrase it like that

> - The Compute Engine API and Network Services API enabled:

Reviewer: Ah, I see. Maybe we could do something like:
```
One of the following roles in your GCP project
   - `owner` or `editor`
   - both of the following Compute Engine IAM roles: `compute.instanceAdmin.v1` (to create instances) and `compute.networkAdmin` (to set up load balancing)
```

Do you think that's better?

> - The Compute Engine API and Network Services API enabled:

Reviewer: Actually, I think I like the way you have it. Marking this as resolved!

  
  ```bash
  gcloud services enable compute.googleapis.com networkservices.googleapis.com
  ```

## Enabling threat detection

To set up the ASM Service Extension in your GCP environment, follow the instructions by either using the Google Cloud Console or Terraform scripts.

> **Note**: Google Cloud provides guides to create [a callout backend service][4] 

Author: This note is here to add additional context. These guides are provided by google to create the same ressources as we are describing just below (but we are providing custom configuration for certain ressources).
It can be framed differently or maybe just references at the end, I wasn't really sure on how to present that.

> **Note**: Google Cloud provides guides to create [a callout backend service][4] 

Reviewer: Got it, makes sense. Thank you! What do you think about updating the note to something like the following:

```
**Note:** Google Cloud provides guides for creating [a callout backend service][4] and [configuring a Service Extension as a traffic extension][5]. The following steps use the same general setup but include custom configurations specific to Datadog’s Application Security Management integration.
```

> **Note**: Google Cloud provides guides to create [a callout backend service][4] 

Reviewer: Actually, I think I like the way you have it. Marking this as resolved!

> **Note**: Google Cloud provides guides to create [a callout backend service][4] 

Author: That's perfect, I'm including it like that 👍

and [create a Service Extension as a traffic extension][5].

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Google Cloud Console" %}}

To integrate a Service Extension with ASM using the Google Cloud Console, complete the following steps:

>   1. **Create a VM Compute instance** using the Datadog ASM Service Extensions Docker image. The image is available on the [Datadog Go tracer GitHub Registry][1].

Reviewer: We typically don't bold step titles like this. I think the numbering should be enough of a visual aid for users!

```suggestion
  1. Create a VM Compute instance using the [Datadog ASM Service Extensions Docker image][1].
```

>   See the [Configuration](#configuration) section below for available environment variables when setting up your VM instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    See [Configuration](#configuration) for available environment variables when setting up your VM instance.
```

>   <div class="alert alert-info">
>     <strong>Note:</strong> Be sure to update accordingly your Firewall rules to allow the Load Balancer to communicate with the Callout VM instance. The same also applies to the Datadog Agent.
>   </div>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <div class="alert alert-info">
      <strong>Note:</strong> Be sure to update your Firewall rules to allow the Load Balancer and Datadog agent to communicate with the Callout VM instance.
    </div>
```

> 2. **Add the VM to an unmanaged instance group**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add the VM to an unmanaged instance group.
```

  
    Specify `http:80` and `grpc:443` (or your configured values) for the port mappings of the instance group.

> 3. **Create a backend service and add your instance group**
> 
>     Create a callout backend service with the following settings:
>     - Protocol: `HTTP2`
>     - Port name: `grpc`
>     - Region: Select your region
>     - Health check port number: `80` (or your configured value)
>     Add the instance group with the service extension VM as a backend to this backend service.
> 
> 4. **Configure the Traffic Service Extension callout**
> 
>     1. In the Google Cloud console, go to **Service Extensions** and create a new Service Extension
>     2. Select your load balancer type
>     3. Select `Traffic extensions` as the type
>     4. Select your forwarding rules
>   <br><br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a backend service with the following settings:
    - Protocol: `HTTP2`
    - Port name: `grpc`
    - Region: Select your region
    - Health check port number: `80` (or your configured value)
    
1. Add the instance group with the service extension VM as a backend to this backend service.

1. Configure the Traffic Service Extension callout:
    1. In the Google Cloud console, go to **Service Extensions** and create a new Service Extension.
    2. Select your load balancer type.
    3. Select `Traffic extensions` as the type.
    4. Select your forwarding rules.
```

      2. For **Programability type**, select `Callouts`
      3. Select the backend service you created in the previous step
      4. Select all **Events** from the list where you want ASM to run detection (Request Headers and Response Headers are **required**)

{{% appsec-getstarted-2-plusrisk %}}

{{< img src="/security/application_security/appsec-getstarted-threat-and-vuln_2.mp4" alt="Video showing Signals explorer and details, and Vulnerabilities explorer and details." video="true" >}}

[1]: https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-go/pkgs/container/dd-trace-go%2Fservice-extensions-callout
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Terraform" %}}

You can use Terraform to automate the deployment of the ASM GCP Service Extension. This simplifies the process of setting up the service extension to work with your existing load balancer.

### Prerequisites for Terraform deployment

- [Terraform][1] installed on your local machine (version 1.0.0 or later)
- GCP credentials with appropriate permissions
- A Datadog API key (used to configure the Datadog Agent)
- An existing GCP Cloud Load Balancer for your application

### Deployment steps

#### 1. Create Terraform configuration files

> You can import the following module to your project. It's installing a the service extension on a **Global External Load Balancer**:

Reviewer: Is "Global External Load Balancer" a specific term? I'm inclined to keep this lowercase and unbolded unless it's a specific/proper term.

```suggestion
Import the following module to your project to install a service extension on a global external load balancer**:
```

To try the preview of ASM Service Extensions for GCP, follow the setup instructions below.
{{< /callout >}}

You can enable application security with GCP Service Extensions within GCP Cloud Load Balancing. The Datadog Application Security Management (ASM) Service Extensions integration provides threat detection and blocking capabilities directly in your GCP environment.

## Prerequisites

> Before you begin, ensure you have:
> 
> - Installed and configured the [Datadog Agent][1] for your application's operating system or container, cloud, or virtual environment.
> - [Configured Remote Configuration on the Agent][2] to enable blocking attackers through the Datadog UI.
> - In your GCP project, either the project `owner` or `editor` role, or the relevant Compute Engine IAM roles: `compute.instanceAdmin.v1` (to create instances) and `compute.networkAdmin` (to set up load balancing).
> - A GCP project with a Cloud Load Balancer configured for your services. The Cloud Load Balancer must be one of the [Application Load Balancers that supports Traffic Callouts][3].
> - Enabled the Compute Engine API and Network Services API:

Reviewer: Updating to follow the format we typically use for prerequisites sections throughout the docs.

```suggestion
- The [Datadog Agent][1] is installed and configured for your application's operating system or container, cloud, or virtual environment.
- [Remote Configuration][2] is configured to enable blocking attackers through the Datadog UI.
- In your GCP project, you have either the project `owner` or `editor` role, or the relevant Compute Engine IAM roles: `compute.instanceAdmin.v1` (to create instances) and `compute.networkAdmin` (to set up load balancing).
- A GCP project with a Cloud Load Balancer is configured for your services. The Cloud Load Balancer must be one of the [Application Load Balancers that supports Traffic Callouts][3].
- Compute Engine API and Network Services API are enabled:
```

  
  ```bash
  gcloud services enable compute.googleapis.com networkservices.googleapis.com
  ```

## Enabling threat detection

To set up the ASM Service Extension in your GCP environment, use the Google Cloud Console or Terraform scripts and complete the following steps.

> **Note**: Google Cloud provides guides to create [a callout backend service][4] and [create a Service Extension as a traffic extension][5].

Reviewer: Maybe something like this? 

```suggestion
**Note:** Google Cloud provides guides for creating [a callout backend service][4] and [configuring a Service Extension as a traffic extension][5]. The following steps use the same general setup but include custom configurations specific to Datadog’s Application Security Management integration.
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Google Cloud Console" %}}

1. Create a VM Compute instance using the [Datadog ASM Service Extensions Docker image][1].

    See [Configuration](#configuration) for available environment variables when setting up your VM instance.

>   <div class="alert alert-info">
>     <strong>Note:</strong> Be sure to update your Firewall rules to allow the Load Balancer and Datadog agent to communicate with the Callout VM instance.
>   </div>

Reviewer: Trying to get this to be justified with the "See Configuration for available environment variables..." line. 

```suggestion
    <div class="alert alert-info">
      <strong>Note:</strong> Be sure to update your Firewall rules to allow the Load Balancer and Datadog agent to communicate with the Callout VM instance.
    </div>
```

2. Add the VM to an unmanaged instance group.
  
    Specify `http:80` and `grpc:443` (or your configured values) for the port mappings of the instance group.

3. Create a backend service with the following settings:
    - Protocol: `HTTP2`
    - Port name: `grpc`

>     - Region: Select your region

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Region: select your region
```

    - Health check port number: `80` (or your configured value)

4. Add the instance group with the service extension VM as a backend to this backend service.

5. Configure the Traffic Service Extension callout:
    1. In the Google Cloud console, go to **Service Extensions** and create a new Service Extension.
    2. Select your load balancer type.
    3. Select `Traffic extensions` as the type.
    4. Select your forwarding rules.
  <br><br>

6. Create an Extension Chain

>     1. To send all traffic to the extension, insert `true` in the **Match condition**.
> 	  2. For **Programability type**, select `Callouts`.
> 	  3. Select the backend service you created in the previous step.
> 	  4. Select all **Events** from the list where you want ASM to run detection (Request Headers and Response Headers are **required**).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. To send all traffic to the extension, insert `true` in the **Match condition**.
    2. For **Programability type**, select `Callouts`.
    3. Select the backend service you created in the previous step.
    4. Select all **Events** from the list where you want ASM to run detection (Request Headers and Response Headers are **required**).
```

> {{% appsec-getstarted-2-plusrisk %}}

Reviewer: Hopefully this works. Just trying to add some space for visual clarity. 

```suggestion
</br>
{{% appsec-getstarted-2-plusrisk %}}
```

[1]: https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-go/pkgs/container/dd-trace-go%2Fservice-extensions-callout
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Terraform" %}}

You can use Terraform to automate the deployment of the ASM GCP Service Extension. This simplifies the process of setting up the service extension to work with your existing load balancer.

### Prerequisites for Terraform deployment

- [Terraform][1] installed on your local machine (version 1.0.0 or later)
- GCP credentials with appropriate permissions
- A Datadog API key (used to configure the Datadog Agent)
- An existing GCP Cloud Load Balancer for your application

### Infrastructure Overview

The Terraform deployment will create the following components:
- A Datadog Agent VM for collecting traces with security events
- A VM running the Datadog Service Extension Callout in a container
- A firewall rule allowing communication between the extension and the Agent
- An unmanaged instance group containing the Service Extension VM
- A backend service configured for HTTP/2 with health checks
- A service extension connected to your existing load balancer

### Deployment Steps

> #### 1. Create Terraform configuration files

Reviewer: I think we should instead number the individual steps and remove the headers. There are only two headers and I don't think they're providing a ton of additional value. 

```suggestion
```

The ASM Service Extension deployment requires several components that work together. We'll create a Terraform module that encapsulates all these components, making the deployment process repeatable and easier to maintain.

> First, create a new directory and the necessary Terraform files:
> 
> ```bash
> mkdir gcp-asm-service-extension && cd gcp-asm-service-extension
> touch main.tf variables.tf
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a new directory and the necessary Terraform files:

    ```bash
    mkdir gcp-asm-service-extension && cd gcp-asm-service-extension
    touch main.tf variables.tf
    ```
```

> Next, add the following code to your `main.tf` file. This file defines all the infrastructure components needed for the ASM Service Extension, including network rules, VM instances, and load balancer configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add the following code to your `main.tf` file. This file defines all the infrastructure components needed for the ASM Service Extension, including network rules, VM instances, and load balancer configuration:
```

> ```hcl

Reviewer: Will need to indent this full block to appear properly under line 125, which is now numbered.

  }
}

#----------------------------------------------------------
# GCP Service Extension
#----------------------------------------------------------

# GCP Service Extension configuration for traffic interception
resource "google_network_services_lb_traffic_extension" "default" {
  name        = "${var.project_prefix}-service-extension"
  description = "Datadog ASM Service Extension"
  location    = "global"

  load_balancing_scheme = "EXTERNAL_MANAGED"
  forwarding_rules      = [var.load_balancer_forwarding_rule]

  extension_chains {
    name = "${var.project_prefix}-service-extension-chain"

    match_condition {
      cel_expression = "true" # Match all traffic
    }

    extensions {
      name      = "${var.project_prefix}-service-extension-chain-ext"
      authority = "datadoghq.com"
      service   = google_compute_backend_service.se_backend_service.self_link
      timeout   = "0.5s"
      fail_open = false # If the extension fails, the request is dropped

      # Supported events for the ASM Service Extension
      supported_events = ["REQUEST_HEADERS", "REQUEST_BODY", "RESPONSE_HEADERS", "RESPONSE_BODY"]
    }
  }
}
```

> Now add the following content to the `variables.tf` file. This file defines all the required input variables for your Terraform configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add the following content to the `variables.tf` file. This file defines all the required input variables for your Terraform configuration:
```

> ```hcl

Reviewer: Will need to indent this as well so it aligns with the "A" in "Add" of line 343.

  type        = string
  validation {
    condition     = length(var.project_prefix) > 0
    error_message = "Project prefix cannot be empty."
  }
}

# Network configuration
variable "application_vpc_network" {

  description = "Name of the VPC network for the application"
  type        = string
  validation {
    condition     = length(var.application_vpc_network) > 0
    error_message = "VPC network name cannot be empty."
  }
}

variable "application_vpc_subnetwork" {

  description = "Name of the VPC subnetwork for the application"
  type        = string
  validation {
    condition     = length(var.application_vpc_subnetwork) > 0
    error_message = "VPC subnetwork name cannot be empty."
  }
}

# Authentication and API keys
variable "datadog_agent_api_key" {
  description = "Datadog API key"
  type        = string
  sensitive   = true
  validation {
    condition     = length(var.datadog_agent_api_key) > 0
    error_message = "Datadog API key cannot be empty."
  }
}

# Load balancer configuration
variable "load_balancer_forwarding_rule" {
  description = "Self link to the forwarding rule for the load balancer"
}
```

> ##### Module configuration
> Finally, include the module in your main Terraform project. This example shows how to reference the module you created above:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Include the module in your main Terraform project. This example shows how to reference the module you created above:
```

> ```hcl

Reviewer: Will need to indent this block.

# main.tf

module "service_extension" {
  source                        = "./gcp-asm-service-extension"
  zone                          = "us-central1-a"
  region                        = "us-central1"
  project_prefix                = "datadog-asm"
  application_vpc_subnetwork    = "your-subnet-name"
  datadog_agent_api_key         = "your-datadog-api-key"
  load_balancer_forwarding_rule = "projects/your-project/regions/us-central1/forwardingRules/your-lb-rule" # or with a self link on your resource
}
```

#### 2. Initialize and apply the Terraform configuration

> Once you've created all the necessary files, deploy the infrastructure by running these commands in the directory where your Terraform files are located:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you've created the necessary files, deploy the infrastructure by running these commands in the directory where your Terraform files are located:
```

> #### 2. Initialize and apply the Terraform configuration
> 
> After you've created the necessary files, deploy the infrastructure by running these commands in the directory where your Terraform files are located:
> 
> ```bash
> terraform init
> terraform plan
> terraform apply
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Deploy the infrastructure by running these commands in the directory where your Terraform files are located:

    ```bash
    terraform init
    terraform plan
    terraform apply
    ```
```
